doc/python: add pytestCheckHook section (#95700)
NixOS/nixpkgs: doc/languages-frameworks/python.section.md

```
Note also the line `doCheck = false;`, we explicitly disabled running the test-suite.

#### Testing Python Packages

It is highly encouraged to have testing as part of the package build. This
helps to avoid situations where the package was able to build and install,
but is not usable at runtime. Currently, all packages will use the `test`

> command provided by the setup.py. However, this is currently deprecated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
command provided by the setup.py (i.e. ``python setup.py test``). However, this is currently deprecated
```
Not sure if it's worth being explicit here.

Author: I was thinking about this as well, but the nix-correct command would be `${python.interpreter} setup.py test` since we also support `pypy`. However, it's just an example.. and might be more relatable if just `python` is used

Author: meh, I like this better

https://github.com/pypa/setuptools/pull/1878 and your package should provide

> it's own checkPhase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
its own checkPhase.
```

*NOTE:* The `checkPhase` for python maps to the `installCheckPhase` on a
normal derivation. This is due to many python packages not behaving well
to the pre-installed version of the package. Version info, and natively
compiled extensions generally only exist in the install directory, and
thus can cause issues when a test suite asserts on that behavior.

> *NOTE:* Tests should only be disabled if they don't agree with nix,
> failing tests can still be a good indication that the package is not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*NOTE:* Tests should only be disabled if they don't agree with nix
(e.g. outside dependencies, requiring network access, or flaky tests,
though in those cases as many tests as possible should still be used),
failing tests can still be a good indication that the package is not
```

> in a valid state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in a valid state. At the very least, using ``pythonImportsCheck = [ "packagename" ];`` helps
check that your package is minimally working.
```

Author: I forgot about this. Thanks for reminding me

#### Using pytest

Pytest is the most common test runner for python repositories. A trivial

> test run would be:

Reviewer: Good, but I worry that people will stop reading here and miss the section on ``pytestCheckHook``, which I prefer. So maybe a forward reference to that section here?

Author: I think we could do that in a follow-up PR, I think the current state of the PR is still a major improvement over the previous

```
  checkInputs = [ pytest ];
  checkPhase = "pytest";
```

> However, many repositories test suites do not translate well to nix's build 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, many repositories' test suites do not translate well to nix's build 
```

sandbox, and will generally need many tests to be disabled.

To filter tests using pytest, one can do the following:
```
  checkInputs = [ pytest ];
  # avoid tests which need additional data or touch network
  checkPhase = ''
    pytest tests/ --ignore=tests/integration -k 'not download and not update'
  '';
```

`--ignore` will tell pytest to ignore that file or directory from being
collected as part of a test run. This is useful is a file uses a package
which is not available in nixpkgs, thus skipping that test file is much
easier than having to create a new package.

`-k` is used to define a predicate for test names. In this example, we are
filtering out tests which contain `download` or `update` in their test case name.

> In pytest==6.0.1, the use of "\" to continue a line ' not download \` has

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In pytest==6.0.1, the use of "\" to continue a line (e.g. `` not download \`` has
```

> been removed, in this case, it's recommended to use `pytestCheckHook`.

Reviewer: Add comment about not accepting multiple ``-k`` commands?

#### Using pytestCheckHook

`pytestCheckHook` is a convenient hook which will substitute the setuptools
`test` command for a checkPhase which runs `pytest`. This is also beneficial
when a package may need many items disabled to run the test suite.

Using the example above, the analagous pytestCheckHook usage would be:
```
  checkInputs = [ pytestCheckHook ];

  # requires additional data
  pytestFlagsArray = [ "tests/" "--ignore=tests/integration" ];

  disabledTests = [
    # touches network
    "download"
    "update"
  ];
```

> Where `pytestCheckHook` shows its strength is when tests need to be conditionally
> disabled, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is especially useful when tests need to be conditionally disabled, for example:
```

```
  disabledTests = [
    # touches network
    "download"
    "update"
  ] ++ lib.optionals (pythonAtLeast "3.8") [
    # broken due to python3.8 async changes
    "async"
  ] ++ lib.optionals stdenv.isDarwin [
    # can fail when building with other packages
    "socket"
  ];
```
Trying to concatenate the related strings to disable tests in a regular checkPhase

> would be much harder to read. As well as this enables us to comment as to why
> specific tests are disabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
would be much harder to read. This also enables us to comment on why specific 
tests are disabled.
```
